# polymer-builder

This is a repo for my PhD thesis work. The results of this work are in preparation to be published in a work titled "Bayesian optimization of solution-processable thermoelectric polymers using ab initio electronic structure data". This work utilizes the [Physical Analytics pipeLine (PAL) 2.0 software](https://github.com/ClancyLab/PAL2) developed by the Clancy Group at Johns Hopkins University.

Abstract: Historically, organic materials design has occurred according to the paradigm wherein the com-
ponents in the system are chosen based on the expert knowledge of an organic synthetic chemist.
Experimental synthesis and processing, often followed by computational validation, is a standard
route to obtain properties that define and characterize materials such as polymers. We are now able
to adopt a paradigm shift: a data-driven approach, now led by computational techniques encom-
passing molecular simulations, machine learning, and advanced optimization methods followed by
experimental validation of a much smaller and more promising set of new materials. This work de-
scribes one such investigation to identify novel, hypothetical and promising polymers based on their
calculated electronic properties and subsequently optimized using a Bayesian surrogate model using
these same properties. Nearly 10,000 combinations of novel, hypothetical semiconducting polymers
and commonly used solvents, generated by density functional theory, were screened for their free
energies of solvation, G$_{solv}$. From this data, we trained a physics-informed Gaussian process model
that linked electronic structure properties to G$_{solv}$, and then used Bayesian optimization to identify
key descriptors for predicting optimal polymer solvation.

`polymer-generator.ipynb` was used to automate the creation process of 324 DPP-based polymer candidates with the general structure A-DPP-A-B-C, where A, B, and C are different conjugated structures pulled from a list of possible choices.

`input-data-analysis.ipynb` was used to generate distributions of input data used in the Bayesian optimization model trained by PAL 2.0.

`solvents/pca-script.py` was used to visualize the feature space spanned by the 27 solvents used in this work.

`solvent-placer.ipynb` was used to explicitly study the effect of solvent molecule interactions with polymer candidates.

Various shell scripts were used to submit batch jobs to [ARCH](https://www.arch.jhu.edu/), the JHU HPC cluster.

`pal-input.xlsx` was the primary mode of input to the PAL 2.0 framework.